Add data stream lifecycle and retention section (#580)
elastic/opentelemetry: docs/reference/data-streams.md

---
navigation_title: Data streams

> description: Learn how EDOT stores telemetry in Elasticsearch. Understand OTel-native and ECS-compatible data streams, exporter behavior, storage engines, and how to configure data retention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how EDOT stores OpenTelemetry signals in Elasticsearch. Understand OTel-native and ECS-compatible data streams, exporter behavior, storage engines, and how to configure data retention.
```

- When EDOT sends to OTel-native data streams (using the `otel` exporter), the data uses the storage engines configured for those data streams.
- When EDOT sends to ECS-compatible data streams (using `elasticapmintake` or the `ecs` exporter), the data uses the storage engines configured for those data streams.

EDOT uses the same index templates and mappings as the rest of the Observability solution.

## Data stream lifecycle and retention

EDOT data streams have no default retention period. Backing indices roll over when they reach 50 GB or 30 days old, but data is not automatically deleted unless you configure a delete phase.

### {{ech}} and self-managed deployments

> EDOT data streams are managed by the standard built-in ILM policies: `logs@lifecycle`, `metrics@lifecycle`, and `traces@lifecycle`. To customize retention without modifying those managed policies, create a `@custom` component template for the relevant signal type:

Reviewer: I believe we currently use `logs`, `metrics`, and `traces@lifecycle` but please double-check.

Author: Double-checked and updated to:

> OTel-native EDOT data streams use the built-in ILM policies `logs`, `metrics`, and `traces@lifecycle`, as set by the `logs@settings`, `metrics@tsdb-settings`, and `traces@settings` component templates that the OTel index templates compose in {{es}}. To customize retention without modifying those managed policies, create a `@custom` component template for the relevant signal type:
